# Spotify-Music-Skips-Action-Prediction

## The Goal of the challenge is to predict the likelihood of a user skipping any given song during a listening session.

# Methodology
## The Data
For the Prediction, Spotify supplied two main sets of information. One table has information about user listening sessions. For example:

#### session ID
#### position in the session
#### track ID
#### if the track was skipped or not
#### other session metadata

Note that the user sessions were all between 10 and 20 tracks long and didn’t include any identifiable information about the users.
The second table has metadata about the tracks (corresponding to the track_id feature from the session table), such as:
#### track duration
#### track popularity in the US
#### release year

As well as some extra features, generated by Spotify, to describe the songs, such as:
#### acousticness
#### beat strength
#### bounciness
#### danceability

The dataset also includes a set of 8 “acoustic vectors” for each track which are latent encodings that Spotify has generated for each track.
For licensing reasons, Spotify anonymize the track information, so there aren’t any data on things like track name, artist, album, or genre.

The targets in the provided dataset — whether or not the track was skipped — are balanced with about 51.7% of the tracks being skipped. So there was no need to adjust the class balances for training.

There was a surplus of data so You will be going to work with a subset of about 100k rows from the session table and the corresponding rows from the track table, which you will be going to load into a Postgres database hosted on an AWS EC2 instance.

